Add PureScript 0.14 migration guide (#373)
purescript/documentation: migration-guides/0.14-Migration-Guide.md

In addition, newtypes that do not have their constructors exported can no longer be unwrapped via the `Newtype` class. Most code will be unaffected, as giving a `Newtype` instance to a newtype with hidden constructors was already considered bad practice and usually accidental.

**To fix:**

Most `Newtype` instances are derived and will continue to work. If you manually defined a `Newtype` instance for a type, however, you can simply remove the `wrap` and `unwrap` definitions:

```diff
+ instance newtypeAdditive :: Newtype (Additive a) a
- instance newtypeAdditive :: Newtype (Additive a) a where
-   wrap = Additive
-   unwrap (Additive a) = a
```

Most newtypes either export their constructors and have a `Newtype` instance, or hide their constructors and do not have the instance. A new compiler warning is raised for types with a `Newtype` instance but hidden constructors.

To address the compiler warning, you can either:

1. Export the newtype constructors, or
1. Remove the `Newtype` instance -- a breaking change, but the correct option if you used hidden constructors to make your newtype a smart constructor.

> #### The `MonadZero` class has been deprecated.

Reviewer: Compiling core modules exporting MonadZero instances, such as Data.List or Data.Maybe, will yield deprecation warnings until we remove the instances. Should we mention that those warnings can be hidden by installing `psa` and compiling with `psa --censor-codes=UserDefinedWarning`?

Reviewer 2: > Should we mention

Yeah, we should.

### Polykinds & Type :: Type

PureScript now supports polymorphic kinds and kind signatures. Most code is unaffected, but there are some changes.

The old `Kind` data type and namespace has been removed. The `foreign import kind` syntax is deprecated, so this will warn:

```purs
foreign import kind Boolean
foreign import data True :: Boolean
foreign import data False :: Boolean
```

and should be rewritten as an empty data declaration:

```purs
data Boolean
foreign import data True :: Boolean
foreign import data False :: Boolean
```

The old unary `# Type` syntax for row kinds is deprecated and should instead be written as `Row Type`. The kind of `RowList` has changed from `Type` to `Type -> Type`, so if you had `RowList` in 0.13.x code it should now be written as `RowList Type`. For example, here's how the `ListToRow` class has changed:

```diff
- class ListToRow (list :: RowList) (row :: # Type)
+ class ListToRow (list :: RowList Type) (row :: Row Type)
```

Finally, all type-level declarations are now generalized. In the below declaration, the kind for `a` would default to `Type`:

```purs

> -- defaults to `data Proxy (a :: Type)`
> data Proxy a

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
data Proxy a

> :k Proxy
Type -> Type
```

I think this is clearer

Primes are no longer allowed in JavaScript FFI definitions because PureScript 0.15 will generate ES modules.

**To fix:**

Rename any functions that contain a prime and are implemented via the FFI:

```js
// before
exports["functionName'"] = function (a) { return a; }

// after
exports.functionNameImpl = function (a) { return a; }
```

You will also need to update the foreign import in your PureScript code:

```diff
- foreign import functionName' :: forall a. a -> a
+ foreign import functionNameImpl :: forall a. a -> a
+
+ functionName' :: forall a. a -> a
+ functionName' = functionNameImpl
```

## Library Changes

Several core library changes accompanied the PureScript 0.14 compiler release. This guide covers notable changes to the `purescript` (core), `purescript-contrib`, `purescript-node`, and `purescript-web` organizations.

However, the changes listed below are not exhaustive. As of the PureScript 0.14 release, all libraries in these organizations contain a CHANGELOG.md file which lists any breaking changes in their latest release. You should consult the changelogs for any libraries you depend on in addition to this migration guide.

### Library Restructuring

> Several core libraries have been restructured. In almost all cases functionality has been preserved, but some functions, types, and / or instances have been moved to new locations.

Reviewer 3: This is not very useful in its current form. We should either say what's actually moved from where to where, or we should just omit this section entirely. I'd prefer the former.

Reviewer 3: Oh never mind, I didn't spot that the following headings are subheadings of this one.

```

All proxy types except for `Proxy` have been deprecated, and `Proxy` is now implemented with a polymorphic kind:

```purs
-- | Proxy type for all kinds.
data Proxy :: forall k. k -> Type
data Proxy a = Proxy
```

In addition, the `proxy` library has been deprecated and all relevant functionality moved into `prelude`.

**To fix:**

You should remove `proxy` as a dependency of your library or application, as the relevant code now lives in the `prelude` package.

You do not need to update code using proxy types like `Proxy2` and `SProxy`, because these types have been deprecated but will not be removed until the PureScript 0.15 compiler release. However, if you'd like to get ahead of this change, you should replace all uses of proxy types other than `Proxy` to use `Proxy` instead. For example:

```purs
-- Code written pre-PureScript 0.14, which will compile with PureScript 0.14
-- but will not compile with PureScript 0.15.
getFoo = Record.get (SProxy :: SProxy "foo")

-- Code written for PureScript 0.14 which will continue to work with
-- PureScript 0.15.
getFoo = Record.get (Proxy :: Proxy "foo")
```

#### The `generics-rep` library has been merged into `prelude`

> `Generic` has been moved to the bottom of the core ecosystem because it's widely-used class with compiler support, but it didn't previously cover some common types like `Tuple` or `Either`. This change enables all of the data types across the core libraries which have a sensible `Generic` instance to have one.

Reviewer 3: It's not really accurate to say this change enables those types to have those instances; we could have added them before, but the instances would have just had to live inside the `generics-rep` library. Also I think we should avoid talking about the "why" in this document.
```suggestion
The `Generic` type class now lives in the `prelude` library. This makes it easier for us to provide `Generic` instances for common types which should have them such as `Tuple` or `Either`.
```

Reviewer 2: This change makes sense and is a bit more readable because there's less content. So :+1: from me.

**To fix:**

> You should remove `generics-rep` as a dependency of your library or application, as most of the relevant code and instances live in the `prelude` package. Code related to `Enum` has been moved to the `enums` package, but you should already depend on this package if you were using it. If you provide your own Generic type class, we recommend the following module naming convention: `<full module path to module containing class>.Generic`.

Reviewer 3: I think "Generic type class" is a bit unclear

```suggestion
You should remove `generics-rep` as a dependency of your library or application, as most of the relevant code and instances live in the `prelude` package. Code related to `Enum` has been moved to the `enums` package, but you should already depend on this package if you were using it. If you provide deriving via Generic for a type class you've defined, we recommend the following module naming convention: `<full module path to module containing class>.Generic`.
```

 
- import Global (toFixed, toPrecision, toExponential)
+ import Data.Number.Format (toStringWith, fixed, precision, exponential)

  -- toFixed, toPrecision, and toExponential can be replaced as follows:
- x = toFixed someInt 4.0 
+ x = toStringWith (fixed someInt) 4.0
 
- y = toPrecision someInt 4.0
+ y = toStringWith (precision someInt) 4.0
 
- z = toExponential intArg 4.0
+ z = toStringWith (exponential someInt) 4.0
```

If you used `readInt`, then you should add a dependency on `integers` and either use `Data.Int.fromString` if you were parsing a base-10 integer, or use `Data.Int.fromStringAs` given a `Data.Int.Radix` if you were parsing a number with another base:

```diff
- import Global (readInt)
+ import Data.Int (binary, fromStringAs)

  fromBinaryString :: String -> Maybe Int
- fromBinaryString = readInt 2
+ fromBinaryString = fromStringAs binary
```

If you used URI encoding and decoding functions, then you should add a dependency on `js-uri` and update your imports:

```diff
- import Global (decodeURI, decodeURIComponent, encodeURI, encodeURIComponent)
+ import JSURI (decodeURI, decodeURIComponent, encodeURI, encodeURIComponent)
```

> If you used various unsafe functions exposed by the `globals` package, you can in most cases use functions from the `partials` package (like `unsafePartial`) combined with partial functions like `Data.Maybe.fromJust` to produce an unsafe function from a safe one.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If you used any of the unsafe functions exposed by the `globals` package, you can in most cases use functions from the `partials` package (like `unsafePartial`) combined with partial functions like `Data.Maybe.fromJust` to produce an unsafe function from a safe one.
```

> #### The dependency graph for `functors` and related packages have changed in order to unify newtypes among the libraries.

Reviewer 3: This should probably be folded into the earlier section about library restructuring

Reviewer 3: Never mind

> Implemented in [purescript-foldable-traversable#131](https://github.com/purescript/purescript-foldable-traversable/pull/131), [purescript-functors#31](https://github.com/purescript/purescript-functors/pull/31), [purescript-profunctor#41](https://github.com/purescript/purescript-profunctor/pull/41), [purescript-distributive#17](https://github.com/purescript/purescript-distributive/pull/17), [purescript-contravariant#30](https://github.com/purescript/purescript-contravariant/pull/30), [purescript-bifunctors#22](https://github.com/purescript/purescript-bifunctors/pull/22), [purescript-tuples#46](https://github.com/purescript/purescript-tuples/pull/46), [purecsript-identity#26](https://github.com/purescript/purescript-identity/pull/26), [purescript-either#64](https://github.com/purescript/purescript-either/pull/64), and [purecsript-const#19](https://github.com/purescript/purescript-const/pull/19). 

Reviewer 3: I think it might be better not to link to these PRs, especially as we aren't doing it elsewhere in this document. I'm not really sure how much these add and we don't want people thinking they need to read through these before they attempt to migrate to 0.14.

Reviewer 3: Never mind

> Mostly discussed in [purescript-profunctor#23](https://github.com/purescript/purescript-profunctor/issues/23).

Reviewer 3: Let's remove this too imo
